title:: Assessing the impact of transitions from centralised to decentralised water solutions on existing infrastructures – integrated city-scale analysis with VIBe
authors:: R. Sitzenfrei (author), M. Möderl (author), W. Rauch (author)
date:: [[Jan 1st, 2013]]
publicationTitle:: Water Research
volume:: 47
issue:: 20
pages:: 7251-7263
DOI:: 10.1016/j.watres.2013.10.038
tags:: [[Water Governance]], [[Scenario Analyses]], [[Decentralised Water Management]], [[VIBe]]
itemType:: [[journalArticle]]
citeKey:: sitzenfreiAssessingImpactTransitions2013
links:: zotero://select/library/items?itemKey=4CA42XNW

- [[Abstract]]
	- Traditional urban water management relies on central organised infrastructure, the most important being the drainage network and the water distribution network. To meet upcoming challenges such as climate change, the rapid growth and shrinking of cities and water scarcity, water infrastructure needs to be more flexible, adaptable and sustainable (e.g., sustainable urban drainage systems, SUDS; water sensitive urban design, WSUD; low impact development, LID; best management practice, BMP). The common feature of all solutions is the push from a central solution to a decentralised solution in urban water management. This approach opens up a variety of technical and socio-economic issues, but until now, a comprehensive assessment of the impact has not been made. This absence is most likely attributable to the lack of case studies, and the availability of adequate models is usually limited because of the time- and cost-intensive preparation phase. Thus, the results of the analysis are based on a few cases and can hardly be transferred to other boundary conditions. VIBe (Virtual Infrastructure Benchmarking) is a tool for the stochastic generation of urban water systems at the city scale for case study research. With the generated data sets, an integrated city-scale analysis can be performed. With this approach, we are able to draw conclusions regarding the technical effect of the transition from existing central to decentralised urban water systems. In addition, it is shown how virtual data sets can assist with the model building process. A simple model to predict the shear stress performance due to changes in dry weather flow production is developed and tested.
- [[Attachments]]
	-